account_settings.md, before:

---

copyright:
  years: 2018, 2021
lastupdated: "2021-09-22"

keywords: account settings, edit account name, view account type

subcollection: account

---

{:shortdesc: .shortdesc}
{:help: data-hd-content-type='help'}
{:support: data-reuse='support'}
{:tip: .tip}
{:important: .important}
{:note: .note}


# Viewing your account settings
{: #account_settings}
{: help} 
{: support}

As an {{site.data.keyword.cloud}} account owner, you can change the account name and view your account type. If you have an access policy with the Operator role or higher on all account management services, you can view and update the account name.  
{: shortdesc}

## Editing the account name
{: #change-acct-name}

To edit your account name, go to **Manage** > **Account**, and select **Account settings** in the {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} console. In the Account section, click the **Edit** icon ![Edit icon](../icons/edit-tagging.svg "Edit"), type your new account name, and click **Submit**.

## Viewing your account type
{: #view-acct-type}

To view your account type, go to **Manage** > **Account**, and select **Account settings**. Details about your account type are listed in the Account Type section. For more information about the features that are included with your account, see [Account types](/docs/account?topic=account-accounts).

You can change your account to a different type by upgrading or converting your account. See [Upgrading your account](/docs/account?topic=account-upgrading-account) for more information.

Commit message:

Pr for cancel term updates
github issue for reference: https://github.ibm.com/Bluemix/docs/issues/8218

account_settings.md, after:

---

copyright:
  years: 2018, 2021
lastupdated: "2021-08-24"

keywords: account settings, edit account name, view account type, cancel account, delete account, terminate account

subcollection: account

---

{:shortdesc: .shortdesc}
{:help: data-hd-content-type='help'}
{:support: data-reuse='support'}
{:tip: .tip}
{:important: .important}
{:note: .note}


# Viewing your account settings
{: #account_settings}
{: help} 
{: support}

As an {{site.data.keyword.cloud}} account owner, you can change the account name and view your account type. If you have an access policy with the Operator role or higher on all account management services, you can view and update the account name.  
{: shortdesc}

## Editing the account name
{: #change-acct-name}

To edit your account name, go to **Manage** > **Account**, and select **Account settings** in the {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} console. In the Account section, click the **Edit** icon ![Edit icon](../icons/edit-tagging.svg "Edit"), type your new account name, and click **Submit**.

## Viewing your account type
{: #view-acct-type}

To view your account type, go to **Manage** > **Account**, and select **Account settings**. Details about your account type are listed in the Account Type section. For more information about the features that are included with your account, see [Account types](/docs/account?topic=account-accounts).

You can change your account to a different type by upgrading or converting your account. See [Upgrading your account](/docs/account?topic=account-upgrading-account) for more information.

## Closing an account 
{: #cancel-account}

We're sad to see you go! If there's any way we can assist you before you decide to close your account, [reach out to us](https://{DomainName}/unifiedsupport/supportcenter){: external}.

To close a Lite account, go to **Manage** > **Account**, select **Account settings**. From the account settings page, click **Close account**. You can reactivate your account if you upgrade to a Pay-As-You-Go or Subscription account. After an account is closed for 30 days, all data is deleted and all services are removed. 

If you want to close a Pay-As-You-Go or Subscription account, contact [Support](https://{DomainName}/unifiedsupport/supportcenter). A support case is required for account security and documentation purposes. After your Pay-As-You-Go account is closed, all usage is stopped across all services running in your account, and the usage that is accrued in the current billing period is sent in one final invoice at the close of the billing period. Closing your account can't be undone and your data is unrecoverable.
