account-close.md, before:

---

copyright:

  years: 2024

lastupdated: "2024-05-24"

keywords: close account, cancel account, delete account, terminate account

subcollection: account

---

{{site.data.keyword.attribute-definition-list}}

# Closing an account
{: #account-close}

When you no longer need your {{site.data.keyword.cloud}} account, you can close the account. If there's any way we can assist you before you decide to close your account, [reach out to us](/unifiedsupport/supportcenter){: external}.
{: shortdesc}

## Before you begin
{: #about-close-account}

Before you can close a Pay-As-You-Go or Subscription account, the account owner needs to cancel all services, devices, and billing items for the account. Then, the account owner can create a support case to close a Subscription account or close a Pay-As-You-Go in the {{site.data.keyword.cloud}} console.

If your account has reserved instances with term remaining on the agreement or other resources that you can't cancel, contact [support](/unifiedsupport/supportcenter). Rescheduled any pending cancellations to terminate prior to account cancellation. For example, you might have {{site.data.keyword.baremetal_short}} scheduled to terminate at the end of the month.

### Step 1: Canceling all services
{: #cancel-services}

To delete a service instance, use the following steps:
1. From the {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} console, click the Navigation Menu icon ![Navigation Menu icon](../icons/icon_hamburger.svg "Menu") > **Resource list** to view your list of resources.
2. Expand the sections to locate the service instance that you want to delete.
3. Click the **Actions** icon ![Actions icon](../icons/action-menu-icon.svg "Actions") > **Delete** for the row.

### Step 2: Canceling all devices
{: #cancel-devices}

To cancel all devices, use the following steps::
1. From the {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} console,, click the menu icon ![Menu icon](../../icons/icon_hamburger.svg) > **Classic Infrastructure** > **Device List**.
1. For each device that you want to cancel, click the **Actions** icon ![Action icon](../icons/action-menu-icon.svg "Actions"), and select **Cancel device**.
1. Acknowledge that data loss might occur as a result of canceling, and then click **Cancel device**.

### Step 3: Canceling all billing items
{: #cancel-billing-items}

To cancel all billing items, use the following steps::
1. From the {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} console, select **Manage** > **Billing and usage**.
1. Select **Billing items**.
1. Ensure that you are viewing all billing items.
1. For each billing item that you want to cancel, click the **Actions** icon ![Action icon](../icons/action-menu-icon.svg "Actions"), and select **Cancel billing item**.

As a user on {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}}, you can be a member of multiple accounts. If you are not the account owner, you can leave the account. For more information, see [Leaving an account](/docs/account?topic=account-account-membership).

## Closing a Pay-As-You-Go account
{: #close-account}

After the account owner cancels all services, devices, and billing items for the account, they can cancel the account. To close a Pay-As-You-Go account, go to **Manage** > **Account**, select **Account settings** in the {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} console. From the account settings page, click **Close account**.

Closing your account can't be undone, and your data is unrecoverable.
{: important}

After your Pay-As-You-Go account is closed, all usage is stopped across all services that are running in your account. The usage that is accrued in the current billing period is sent in one final invoice at the close of the billing period. You might receive a final invoice after you close your account due to incurred charges from the month before the account was closed.

## Closing a Subscription account
{: #close-subscription-account}

To close a Subscription account, a support case is required for account security and documentation purposes. Closing your account can't be undone, and your data is unrecoverable. The support case documents your acknowledgment that the account and its data cannot be recovered after closure.

You can request to cancel your Subscription account before the end of the term, but whether the subscription can be canceled early is at the discretion of IBM. A subscription is a contract between you and IBM that commits you to use {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} for a specific term and spending amount. For more information, see [Managing subscriptions](/docs/billing-usage?topic=billing-usage-subscriptions).

To create the support case, use the following steps:
1. Go to the [Support Center](/unifiedsupport/supportcenter), and click **Create a case** in the Contact Support center.
1. Click **Account**.
1. Select the **Cancel/close/suspend** subtopic and click **Next**.
1. Add a subject title and use the template as a guide to complete the case description.

   * As noted in the template, acknowledge that you understand all services and data will be permanently removed and will not be recoverable upon account closure.

Go to the [Manage cases](/unifiedsupport/cases/manage){: external} page to track the progress or to update the support case.

## Closing a Lite or Trial account
{: #cancel-account}

To close a Lite account or to end a Trial account before its expiration date, go to **Manage** > **Account**, select **Account settings** in the {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} console. From the account settings page, click **Close account**.

You can reactivate your account if you upgrade to a Pay-As-You-Go or Subscription account. After an account is closed for 30 days, all data is deleted and all services are removed.

Commit message:

Addison Martin: add other reasons, remove child account steps

account-close.md, after:

---

copyright:

  years: 2024

lastupdated: "2024-05-24"

keywords: close account, cancel account, delete account, terminate account

subcollection: account

---

{{site.data.keyword.attribute-definition-list}}

# Closing an account
{: #account-close}

When you no longer need your {{site.data.keyword.cloud}} account, you can close the account. If there's any way we can assist you before you decide to close your account, [reach out to us](/unifiedsupport/supportcenter){: external}.
{: shortdesc}

## Before you begin
{: #about-close-account}

Before you can close a Pay-As-You-Go or Subscription account, the account owner needs to cancel all services, devices, and billing items for the account. Then, the account owner can create a support case to close a Subscription account or close a Pay-As-You-Go in the {{site.data.keyword.cloud}} console.

To close an enteprise account, you must also remove all child accounts. After an account is removed, it is closed and can't be reactivated.

If your account has reserved instances with term remaining on the agreement or other resources that you can't cancel, contact [support](/unifiedsupport/supportcenter). Rescheduled any pending cancellations to terminate prior to account cancellation. For example, you might have {{site.data.keyword.baremetal_short}} scheduled to terminate at the end of the month.

If there are active service commitments or an active Enterprise Savings Plan commitment remaining in your account, you must reach the end of your commitment term before you can close your account.

### Step 1: Canceling all services
{: #cancel-services}

To delete a service instance, use the following steps:
1. From the {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} console, click the Navigation Menu icon ![Navigation Menu icon](../icons/icon_hamburger.svg "Menu") > **Resource list** to view your list of resources.
2. Expand the sections to locate the service instance that you want to delete.
3. Click the **Actions** icon ![Actions icon](../icons/action-menu-icon.svg "Actions") > **Delete** for the row.

### Step 2: Canceling all devices
{: #cancel-devices}

To cancel all devices, use the following steps:
1. From the {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} console,, click the menu icon ![Menu icon](../../icons/icon_hamburger.svg) > **Classic Infrastructure** > **Device List**.
1. For each device that you want to cancel, click the **Actions** icon ![Action icon](../icons/action-menu-icon.svg "Actions"), and select **Cancel device**.
1. Acknowledge that data loss might occur as a result of canceling, and then click **Cancel device**.

### Step 3: Canceling all billing items
{: #cancel-billing-items}

To cancel all billing items, use the following steps:
1. From the {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} console, select **Manage** > **Billing and usage**.
1. Select **Billing items**.
1. Ensure that you are viewing all billing items.
1. For each billing item that you want to cancel, click the **Actions** icon ![Action icon](../icons/action-menu-icon.svg "Actions"), and select **Cancel billing item**.

### Step 4: Removing all child acounts
{: #remove-child-accounts}

To remove a child account from an enterprise, use the following steps:
1. From the {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} console, select **Manage** > **Enterprise** > **Accounts**.
1. 1. For each account that you want to remove, click the **Actions** icon ![Action icon](../icons/action-menu-icon.svg "Actions"), and select **Remove account**.

As a user on {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}}, you can be a member of multiple accounts. If you are not the account owner, you can leave the account. For more information, see [Leaving an account](/docs/account?topic=account-account-membership).

## Closing a Pay-As-You-Go account
{: #close-account}

After the account owner cancels all services, devices, and billing items for the account, they can cancel the account. To close a Pay-As-You-Go account, go to **Manage** > **Account**, select **Account settings** in the {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} console. From the account settings page, click **Close account**.

Closing your account can't be undone, and your data is unrecoverable.
{: important}

After your Pay-As-You-Go account is closed, all usage is stopped across all services that are running in your account. The usage that is accrued in the current billing period is sent in one final invoice at the close of the billing period. You might receive a final invoice after you close your account due to incurred charges from the month before the account was closed.

## Closing a Subscription account
{: #close-subscription-account}

To close a Subscription account, a support case is required for account security and documentation purposes. Closing your account can't be undone, and your data is unrecoverable. The support case documents your acknowledgment that the account and its data cannot be recovered after closure.

You can request to cancel your Subscription account before the end of the term, but whether the subscription can be canceled early is at the discretion of IBM. A subscription is a contract between you and IBM that commits you to use {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} for a specific term and spending amount. For more information, see [Managing subscriptions](/docs/billing-usage?topic=billing-usage-subscriptions).

To create the support case, use the following steps:
1. Go to the [Support Center](/unifiedsupport/supportcenter), and click **Create a case** in the Contact Support center.
1. Click **Account**.
1. Select the **Cancel/close/suspend** subtopic and click **Next**.
1. Add a subject title and use the template as a guide to complete the case description.

   * As noted in the template, acknowledge that you understand all services and data will be permanently removed and will not be recoverable upon account closure.

Go to the [Manage cases](/unifiedsupport/cases/manage){: external} page to track the progress or to update the support case.

## Closing a Lite or Trial account
{: #cancel-account}

To close a Lite account or to end a Trial account before its expiration date, go to **Manage** > **Account**, select **Account settings** in the {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} console. From the account settings page, click **Close account**.

You can reactivate your account if you upgrade to a Pay-As-You-Go or Subscription account. After an account is closed for 30 days, all data is deleted and all services are removed.
