---
copyright:

  years: 2022, 2026
lastupdated: "2026-04-24"

keywords: carbon calculator, cloud carbon calculator, emission calculator, carbon footprint, sustainability, FAQs

subcollection: account

---

{{site.data.keyword.attribute-definition-list}}

# Carbon calculator terminology
{: #carbon-calc-terms}

The following are the terms that are used within the {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}}'s carbon calculator documentation.

Energy
:   Electricity, fuels, and Purchased Energy Commodities used to operate facilities. It does not include energy used for transportation or similar activities.

Energy Conservation
:   Actions that avoid or reduce consumption of energy or improve operational energy efficiency. The results need to be supported by measurements and/or calculations based upon actual operating conditions. Examples of Energy Conservation actions include: using building monitoring and/or management and control software to optimize Energy Consumption; installing efficient lighting and cooling for buildings; using night setbacks on equipment; using variable frequency drives, replacing boilers or chillers and other infrastructure upgrades; optimizing efficiency through maintenance or operational actions; consolidating and virtualizing IT systems; reducing data center cooling delivery; raising IT equipment inlet temperatures.

    Another example of Energy Conservation involves more efficient use of existing space and assets while maintaining the same general business mission and production output. In order to report Energy Conservation savings, specific actions must be taken by the local energy management team when moving or consolidating activities into more energy efficient space (e.g., office space, data centers), provided that there is no associated reduction in business mission and Energy Conservation can be demonstrated when normalized against applicable operational parameters.  Energy reduction due to downsizing or restructuring activities such as building shutdown, ramping down or outsourcing of operations do not qualify as energy conservation.


    Savings from Energy Conservation are only applied to a maximum duration of one continuous 12-month period, which may span across two calendar years. Energy savings may be prorated for each calendar year if month-to-month savings are consistent (e.g., a lighting project) or reported monthly where savings differ or are absent in some months based on the time of year (e.g., a free cooling or chiller optimization project).

Energy Consumption
:   Quantity of energy applied per unit of time to perform work.

Energy Efficiency
:   Ratio or other quantitative relationship between an output of performance, service, goods, commodities, or energy, and an input of energy.  This can be used to demonstrate how effectively energy is used.

Energy Management
:   Activities associated with managing the Energy Consumption, Energy Use and efficiency, Energy Conservation, cost and procurement of Energy across IBM's business.

Energy Use
:   Manner or kind of application of energy to generate work. Examples include lighting, heating and cooling of buildings, manufacturing, and data center operations.

Greenhouse Gas (GHG)
:   Gaseous substance that, when released to the atmosphere, has a warming effect on Earth.

Power Usage Effectiveness (PUE)
:   Ratio of the data center total energy consumption to information technology equipment energy consumption, calculated, measured or assessed across the same period.

Purchased Energy Commodities
:   Steam, chilled water and hot water generated by a third-party and supplied to an IBM Location.

Renewable Energy
:   Energy sources that are naturally replenishing but which may be flow-limited, including biomass, biogas, bioethanol, hydro-power, solar photovoltaic, concentrated solar power, wind power, geothermal, ocean thermal, wave action, and tidal action.

Locations
:   Location is defined as the geographical space where the service instance for the account is being deployed to. This shows the city name for the location. For display purposes, locations aggregate the information for the various datacenters inside the campus or buildings

    The calculations are done by locations and are used for display purposes and to reduce the complexity of the dashboard.
{: note}

Regions and data center locations
:   {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} has a resilient global network of data centers to host our clients' workloads. These data centers are hosted in stand-alone facilities, in Single Campus Multizone Regions (MZRs) and Multizone Regions (MZRs).

Data centers
:   In addition to selecting a region for a resource, users can select from a list of the {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} data centers. Data centers host compute, network, and storage resources and include energy consumption from supporting infrastructure (power generation and distribution, and cooling) used for services and apps.

Single-campus MZRs
:   Contain three availability zones in different sections of the same building or within multiple buildings on the same campus where the power, cooling, networking, and physical security dependencies overlap, but are not identical between any two availability zones. This setup ensures a level of continuous availability and resiliency of any one system outage, planned or unplanned.

Multizone regions (MZRs)
:   Composed of three or more data centers (or zones) that are independent from each other to ensure that single failure events affect only a single zone. MZRs provide low latency (< 2-milliseconds) and high bandwidth connectivity (> 1000 Gbps) across zones.

    For more information about {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} locations, see [Locations for resource deployment](/docs/overview?topic=overview-locations).

{{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} services
:   {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} services include options for compute, storage, networking, end-to-end developer solutions for app development, testing and deployment, security management services, traditional and open-source databases, and cloud-native services.

    The {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} carbon calculator includes methodologies to estimate electricity consumption and associated GHG emissions for a comprehensive list of Cloud Services, with coverage for additional services being added in future versions of the tool.

    As we continue to add, deprecate, or modify services, this list will continually evolve. For the latest list of supported services, see [Tracking your carbon emissions](/docs/account?topic=account-tracking-emission).
    {: note}

    To learn more about {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} offerings, see [{{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} catalog](https://cloud.ibm.com/catalog){: external}.

Service Usage Units
:   Service Usage Units (Usage Units) are used to measure the "amount" or "volume" of any given service provided by {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} to our clients, and subsequently used to bill clients for that use. {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} clients may use a plurality of services in different regions, and {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} uses different Usage Units for specific resources and services.

    For example, for {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} Kubernetes service, {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} meters a large number of Service Usage Units on which it bases billing. These Usage Units include things such as the number of virtual CPU hours (vCPU-hours), disk usage in gigabytes or gigabyte-hours and network usage in gigabytes.

    Another example is Cloud Object Storage, where Usage Units include the total size of objects used in gigabytes, the bandwidth outgoing from the {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} for reads in gigabytes, and the number and type of operations.

    The calculation method uses the Usage Units of individual {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} Service offerings that are most closely related to electricity consumption to allocate electricity consumption of shared resources to individual clients. For example, for the {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} Kubernetes service, the {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} carbon calculator bases its allocation of electricity consumption on the number of vCPU-hours consumed by the client.

Resource Groups
:   A resource group is a logical set of service instances that have been tagged by the client at deployment.
