contact_info.md, before:

---

copyright:
  years: 2018, 2021
lastupdated: "2021-11-23"

keywords: company information, company details, company account, company profile, company contact

subcollection: account

---

{{site.data.keyword.attribute-definition-list}}

# Updating company profile details
{: #contact-info}

Each {{site.data.keyword.Bluemix}} account includes a company profile that contains company information and details about the primary account holder. You can use data from the company profile when you set up contacts and user profiles. You can have various account-specific contacts that are used in association with services available in the account. If you have administrative access or higher, you can update your company contact information.
{: shortdesc}

## Updating your company profile
{: #customer-profile}

To request an update to the company profile details, go to **Manage** > **Account** in the {{site.data.keyword.Bluemix_notm}} console, select **Company information**, and then select **Company profile**. After you request an update to the company profile, a classic infrastructure team member reviews the request. If any additional information is needed, our team asks for updates by updating the case. The following company profile fields must contain accurate information:

* Company Name
* Street Address 1
* Country
* State/Province (as needed)
* City
* Zip/Postal Code
* First Name of the primary account holder
* Last Name of the primary account holder
* Email address
* Phone

If your account is for personal use, you can use your first and last name as the Company Name.
{: tip}

{{site.data.keyword.Bluemix_notm}} uses the information in the company profile to contact you. If your phone number or email changes, be sure to update them. The company profile information is entered when the account was created.

## Editing a company contact
{: #account-contact}

Company contacts are created when certain products or services are ordered. For example, when a Regional Internet Registry (RIR) report is requested or a domain is ordered, a company contact is created. To edit a company contact, go to **Manage** > **Account** in the console, select **Company information**, and then select **Company contacts**. Keep the information about the company contacts complete and up-to-date in case an inquiry is required.

Ensure that the company contacts are the appropriate people to be contacted for each type of request. You might have multiple contact entries for each account, but only one contact for each type of service. Company-specific contact information doesn't include the account profile, which is the primary contact information that is associated with an account.

Verify the information before you make the update. After you submit the new contact information, the company contacts are updated immediately.
{: important}

Commit message:

note that the page is not available for some account types
https://github.ibm.com/ibmcloud/docs-feedback-issues/issues/649

contact_info.md, after:

---

copyright:
  years: 2018, 2023
lastupdated: "2023-04-04"

keywords: company information, company details, company account, company profile, company contact

subcollection: account

---

{{site.data.keyword.attribute-definition-list}}

# Updating company profile details
{: #contact-info}

Each {{site.data.keyword.Bluemix}} account includes a company profile that contains company information and details about the primary account holder. You can use data from the company profile when you set up contacts and user profiles. You can have various account-specific contacts that are used in association with services available in the account. If you have administrative access or higher, you can update your company contact information.
{: shortdesc}

This page is not available for some account types. Upgrade to complete your account and access the functions on the Company information page.
{: note}

## Updating your company profile
{: #customer-profile}

To request an update to the company profile details, go to **Manage** > **Account** in the {{site.data.keyword.Bluemix_notm}} console, select **Company information**, and then select **Company profile**. After you request an update to the company profile, a classic infrastructure team member reviews the request. If any additional information is needed, our team asks for updates by updating the case. The following company profile fields must contain accurate information:

* Company Name
* Street Address 1
* Country
* State/Province (as needed)
* City
* Zip/Postal Code
* First Name of the primary account holder
* Last Name of the primary account holder
* Email address
* Phone

If your account is for personal use, you can use your first and last name as the Company Name.
{: tip}

{{site.data.keyword.Bluemix_notm}} uses the information in the company profile to contact you. If your phone number or email changes, be sure to update them. The company profile information is entered when the account was created.

## Editing a company contact
{: #account-contact}

Company contacts are created when certain products or services are ordered. For example, when a Regional Internet Registry (RIR) report is requested or a domain is ordered, a company contact is created. To edit a company contact, go to **Manage** > **Account** in the console, select **Company information**, and then select **Company contacts**. Keep the information about the company contacts complete and up-to-date in case an inquiry is required.

Ensure that the company contacts are the appropriate people to be contacted for each type of request. You might have multiple contact entries for each account, but only one contact for each type of service. Company-specific contact information doesn't include the account profile, which is the primary contact information that is associated with an account.

Verify the information before you make the update. After you submit the new contact information, the company contacts are updated immediately.
{: important}
