context-restrictions-create.md, before:

---

copyright:
  years: 2021, 2022

lastupdated: "2022-06-22"

keywords: create network access, network access rule, network zone

subcollection: account

---

{{site.data.keyword.attribute-definition-list}}


# Creating context-based restrictions
{: #context-restrictions-create}

Context-based restrictions allow you to manage user and service access to specific cloud resources. You can define restrictions to the resources based on contexts, such as network zones and endpoint types. For more information, see [What are context-based restrictions](/docs/account?topic=account-context-restrictions-whatis&interface=ui).
{: shortdesc}

User and account-level IP address restrictions can also affect users' ability to access resources. To view account-level IP address restrictions, go to [Settings](/iam/settings). To view individual user settings, go to [Users](/iam/users) and view each user's IP address restrictions in the details tab. 
{: note}

## Before you begin
{: #context-prereq}

To set up context-based restrictions, you must be the account owner or have an access policy with the administrator role on all account management services. For more information, see [Assigning access to account management services](/docs/account?topic=account-account-services).

## Creating network zones
{: #network-zones-create}

By creating network zones, you can create a list of allowed locations where an access request originates. A set of one or more network locations can be specified by IP addresses such as individual addresses, ranges or subnets, and VPC IDs. After you create a network zone, you can add it to a rule. 

To create a network zone, complete the following steps. 
1. In the {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} console, click **Manage** > **Context-based restrictions**, and select **Network zones**.
1. Click **Create**.  

    Instead of creating a zone by using UI inputs, you can use the JSON code form to directly enter JSON to create a zone by clicking **Enter as JSON code**.
    {: note}

1. Enter a unique name and a description.
1. Enter the allowed IP addresses where an access request can originate. Include IP address exceptions in the deny list, if necessary.
1. Enter the allowed VPCs. 
1. Reference a service. Select a service and click **Add** to associate its IP addresses with your network zone.
1. Click **Next** to review your network zone.
1. Click **Create**.

You can continue by creating more network zones, or by creating rules.
{: tip}

## Creating rules
{: #context-restrictions-create-rules}

Define restrictions to your cloud resources by creating rules.

To create a rule, complete the following steps. 
1. In the {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} console, click **Manage** > **Context-based restrictions**, and select **Rules**.
1. Click **Create**.  
1. Provide a unique description. 
1. Select how you want to enforce the rule. You can decide how you want to enforce a rule upon creation and update the rule enforcement at any time.
    * **Enable**: Enforce the rule. Denied access attempts are reported in {{site.data.keyword.at_short}}.
    * **Disable**: Don't enforce the rule. Restrictions don't apply to your account resources. Select this option if you're not ready to enable the rule.
    * **Report-only**: Monitor how the rule affects users without enforcing it. All attempts to access resources in the account are logged in {{site.data.keyword.at_short}}. Monitoring is recommended for 30 days before you enforce the rule.
1. Click **Continue**. 
1. Select the service that you want to target in your rule. Then, click **Next**. 

    When you create context-based restriction for the IAM Access Groups service, users who don't satisfy the rule can't view any groups in the account, including the public access group. 
    {: note}

1. Scope the restriction to **All resources** or **Specific resources** based on selected attributes. 
1. Click **Review** > **Continue**. 
1. Add one or more contexts. Select endpoint types and network zones, and click **Add**. 
    * You can allow access from all service-supported or specific service endpoint types. If the toggle is set to Yes, all service supported endpoint types are added to the rule. 
    * You can add existing network zones to your rule or create new zones to add to your rule. For more information, see [Creating network zones](/docs/account?topic=network-zones-create).
1. Click **Create**.

Commit message:

removed CBR enforcement info
UI updates were reverted. Removed info per Chris Hatko

context-restrictions-create.md, after:

---

copyright:
  years: 2021, 2022
lastupdated: "2022-06-24"


keywords: create network access, network access rule, network zone

subcollection: account

---

{{site.data.keyword.attribute-definition-list}}


# Creating context-based restrictions
{: #context-restrictions-create}

Context-based restrictions allow you to manage user and service access to specific cloud resources. You can define restrictions to the resources based on contexts, such as network zones and endpoint types. For more information, see [What are context-based restrictions](/docs/account?topic=account-context-restrictions-whatis&interface=ui).
{: shortdesc}

User and account-level IP address restrictions can also affect users' ability to access resources. To view account-level IP address restrictions, go to [Settings](/iam/settings). To view individual user settings, go to [Users](/iam/users) and view each user's IP address restrictions in the details tab. 
{: note}

## Before you begin
{: #context-prereq}

To set up context-based restrictions, you must be the account owner or have an access policy with the administrator role on all account management services. For more information, see [Assigning access to account management services](/docs/account?topic=account-account-services).

## Creating network zones
{: #network-zones-create}

By creating network zones, you can create a list of allowed locations where an access request originates. A set of one or more network locations can be specified by IP addresses such as individual addresses, ranges or subnets, and VPC IDs. After you create a network zone, you can add it to a rule. 

To create a network zone, complete the following steps. 
1. In the {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} console, click **Manage** > **Context-based restrictions**, and select **Network zones**.
1. Click **Create**.  

    Instead of creating a zone by using UI inputs, you can use the JSON code form to directly enter JSON to create a zone by clicking **Enter as JSON code**.
    {: note}

1. Enter a unique name and a description.
1. Enter the allowed IP addresses where an access request can originate. Include IP address exceptions in the deny list, if necessary.
1. Enter the allowed VPCs. 

    If you want to allow access from the VPC to public endpoints in your rule, include any public gateway IP addresses in the zone definition along with the VPC.
    {: important}

1. Reference a service. Select a service and click **Add** to associate its IP addresses with your network zone.
1. Click **Next** to review your network zone.
1. Click **Create**.

You can continue by creating more network zones, or by creating rules.
{: tip}

## Creating rules
{: #context-restrictions-create-rules}

Define restrictions to your cloud resources by creating rules.

To create a rule, complete the following steps. 
1. In the {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} console, click **Manage** > **Context-based restrictions**, and select **Rules**.
1. Click **Create**.  
1. Provide a unique description. 
1. Click **Continue**. 
1. Select the service that you want to target in your rule. Then, click **Next**. 
    * Select a single service
    * Select **All IAM Account Management services**, which restrict access to the IAM platform services IAM Identity, IAM Access Management, User Management, and IAM Access Groups.

    When you create context-based restriction for the IAM Access Groups service, users who don't satisfy the rule can't view any groups in the account, including the public access group. 
    {: note}

1. Scope the restriction to **All resources** or **Specific resources** based on selected attributes. 
1. (Optional) Select the scope of APIs whose operations are restricted by your rule. For more information, see [Defining the scope of a rule](/docs/account?topic=account-context-restrictions-whatis&interface=ui#rule-scope).

    Not all services support the ability to scope a rule by API.
    {: note}

1. Click **Review** > **Continue**. 
1. Add one or more contexts. Select endpoint types and network zones, and click **Add**. 
    * You can allow access from all service-supported or specific service endpoint types. If the toggle is set to Yes, all service supported endpoint types are added to the rule. 

    If you want to allow access from a VPC to public endpoints in your rule, include any public gateway IP addresses in the zone definition along with the VPC.
    {: important}

    * You can add existing network zones to your rule or create new zones to add to your rule. For more information, see [Creating network zones](/docs/account?topic=network-zones-create).
1. Click **Create**.

<!--- The steps in the tip below are correct but don't work as intended. This is a bug that dev needs to fix before we can expose this. When we do bring it back, also consider making this step-by-step with its own H2 (Siggested by Dimitri Prosper). --Addison


If you create a context-based restriction for the **IAM Access Groups** or **IAM Users** services, the rule must allow the two services to still communicate. To do this, create a network zone with a service reference to the other service. For example, if you create a context-based restriction around the IAM Access Groups service, create a network zone with a service reference to the IAM Users service. Then, add this network zone to the rule you create around the IAM Access Groups service. This way, the IP addresses associated with the IAM Users service is included in the rule’s allowed context. If you don't do this, the services might produce unexpected behavior.
{: tip}
--->
