iam-idp-integration.md, before:

---

copyright:

  years: 2020, 2022

lastupdated: "2022-01-12"

keywords: identity provider, IdP, App ID, IAM, integration, IdP SSO, third-party authentication, dynamic rules, external identity provider

subcollection: account

---

{:shortdesc: .shortdesc}
{:codeblock: .codeblock}
{:screen: .screen}
{:tip: .tip}
{:note: .note}
{:important: .important}
{:external: target="_blank" .external}

# Enabling authentication from an external identity provider
{: #idp-integration}

You can integrate with your external identity provider (IdP) to securely authenticate external users to your {{site.data.keyword.cloud}} account. By using your IdP, you can provide a way for users in your company to use single sign-on (SSO). Connecting your cloud account with an {{site.data.keyword.appid_full_notm}} instance of your choice makes it all possible.
{: shortdesc}

A more commonly used authentication method in {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} that federates you for all {{site.data.keyword.IBM_notm}} products and has no usage charges is IBMid federation by registering your company's domain. Registering a company's domain with {{site.data.keyword.IBM_notm}} enables users to log in to {{site.data.keyword.IBM_notm}} products and services by using their existing company user credentials. Authentication is then handled by your company's IdP through single sign-on (SSO). For information about how to register your company for a federated ID, see the [IBMid Enterprise Federation Adoption Guide](https://ibm.box.com/v/IBMid-Federation-Guide){: external}. An {{site.data.keyword.IBM_notm}} sponsor, such as an offering advocate or client advocate, is required when you request to register federated IDs.

If you choose to use an external IdP reference through IAM, each account can have up to five IdP references added through the Identity providers page in the Access (IAM) section of the console. You set up your IdP reference by selecting which {{site.data.keyword.appid_short}} instance to integrate with IAM. Then, the IdP reference is given a random realm ID that is the unique prefix for users of that {{site.data.keyword.appid_short}} service instance. 

Setting up the integration between your {{site.data.keyword.appid_short}} instance, which is already configured with your IdP, and your {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} account makes it so you can continue to manage all users externally in your IdP. It also simplifies the log in process to your cloud account for users in your enterprise. After the integration is complete, you must provide your users with a custom URL that they use to log in each time. There is no need to invite anyone to your account because if they exist as a user in your connected IdP's user repository, they can log in with their credentials through the custom URL.

## Before you begin
{: #idp-prereqs}

* To decide which is the right federation option for you, check the [IBM Cloud SAML Federation Guide](https://www.ibm.com/cloud/blog/ibm-cloud-saml-federation-guide){: external}.
* Create an instance of {{site.data.keyword.appid_short}} from the {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} catalog. For more information, see the [Getting started tutorial](/docs/appid?topic=appid-getting-started).
* Configure your {{site.data.keyword.appid_short}} instance. For more information about how to do this depending on your use case, see the {{site.data.keyword.appid_short}} documentation about [managing authentication](/docs/appid?topic=appid-managing-idp).
* Make sure you have the required access to view and manage IdP references, if you aren't the account owner. You must be assigned the operator role or higher on the {{site.data.keyword.appid_short}} instance and the operator or administration role on the [IAM Identity Service](/docs/account?topic=account-account-services#identity-service-account-management). 

## Configuration of your {{site.data.keyword.appid_short}} instance for IAM integration
{: #configure-appid-instance}

Review the following requirements about how your {{site.data.keyword.appid_short}} instance must be configured to work properly as an IAM IdP for your {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} account.

If you plan to use your {{site.data.keyword.appid_short}} instance for IAM IdP integration, then any user can log in to your account who can authenticate with that {{site.data.keyword.appid_short}} instance. Therefore, consider following these guidelines when you configure your instance:

Disable the following types of authentication:

* Facebook
* Google
* IBMid
* Anonymous

If you decide to use Cloud Directory as an authentication method, disable the option for users to sign up through the app, and instead add only known users individually to your [Cloud Directory](/docs/appid?topic=appid-cloud-directory).
{: tip}

### Setting IAM-specific attributes in {{site.data.keyword.appid_short}} tokens
{: #iam-idp-attributes}

For IAM to work correctly with your external IdP, you must ensure that the {{site.data.keyword.appid_short}} instance provides all of the required attributes. See the following table for the required attributes:

| Attribute          | {{site.data.keyword.appid_short}} ID token claim            | Source             | Description      |
|--------------------|------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------|-------------------|
| identifier (required)   | ID        | {{site.data.keyword.appid_short}} generated     | A unique identifier that identifies a user. It can't be changed during the life time of that user. {{site.data.keyword.appid_short}} creates this identifier. |
| email (required)        | email    | Mapped from SAML assertion "email", which is mandatory for Cloud Directory and SAML configurations. | The user's email address. |
| username (recommended)  | preferred_username if present, otherwise sub    | Mapped from SAML assertion "preferred_username", "username", "user_name" or "userName" if available. Otherwise, the {{site.data.keyword.appid_short}} generated "sub" claim is used | When you work with the CLI, APIs, or the {{site.data.keyword.containerlong_notm}}, the username displays. A username is often an email address, but can also be a different value. If the username is not provided by {{site.data.keyword.appid_short}}, IAM uses the identifier instead. |
| firstname (recommended) | given_name if available, otherwise "notset" as default  | Mapped from SAML assertion "given_name", "givenname", "givenName", "first_name", "firstname" or "firstName" if available, otherwise IAM uses the constant "notset" | The first name of the user that logs in. |
| lastname (recommended)  | family_name if available, otherwise "notset" as default | Mapped from SAML assertion "family_name", "familyname", "familyName", "last_name", "lastname" or "lastName" if available, otherwise IAM uses the constant "notset" | The last name of the user that logs in. |
| name (optional)         | name if present, otherwise built by the firstname, a space, and the last name | There is no automatic mapping from SAML | Full name, including middle initial, title, or anything that is not covered by first name and last name |
{: caption="Table 1. Required attributes for {{site.data.keyword.appid_short}} tokens" caption-side="top"}

When a user authenticates successfully by using the {{site.data.keyword.appid_short}} service instance in the {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} account, the user is automatically added to the account. Added users don't get any access policies assigned by default. However, by using [access groups](/docs/account?topic=account-groups) and [dynamic rules](/docs/account?topic=account-rules), you can set up automatically assigned access policies.


## Enabling and connecting your identity provider
{: #idp-console}

If you haven't configured any IAM IdP references before in your account, you must enable the login setting for your account first.

1. Enable the login settings for your account. You can skip this step if you've already enabled this setting.
   1. Go to **Manage** > **Access (IAM)** > **Identity providers**, and click **Enable**. 
   2. Enter an alias for the default account URL, which you provide to users to log in to your account. 
  
    Since you're sharing the URL with external users, make sure the alias is unique and simple. A common format might be to use your company name or a variation of it.
    {: tip}
     
2. Click **Create** to create your IdP reference. 
3. Enter a name for the IdP reference, and select the {{site.data.keyword.appid_short}} instance that you want to connect. Then, select the following options:

   * **Enable for account login?**: Enable your IdP references to be used for users to log in to your account. This option is set by default when you first create an IdP reference. 
   * **Set as the default?**: When selected, users can use the default IdP reference URL that you created when you enabled this feature to log in to your account. You can have only one default IdP reference. For all other IdP references that you create, users must use the realm IDs to log in.
 
4. Click **Create**.

Your IdP reference is now available on the Identity providers list and the realm ID is generated automatically as the value that represents your IAM IdP in {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}}.
{: note}

## Logging in with external identity provider credentials
{: #log-in-external-idp}

After your {{site.data.keyword.appid_short}} instance is connected to your IdP, and your {{site.data.keyword.appid_short}} instance is integrated with IAM, your users can start logging in to your account. If the IdP reference is set as the default, then you can share the **Default IdP URL** for your account. 

However, since you can have only one set as the default, but you can have up to five set up in your account, you might need to get the URL for another IdP reference: 

1. From the Identity provider pages, click the **Actions** icon ![List of actions icon](../icons/action-menu-icon.svg "Actions") for the row of the IdP reference you need a URL for.
2. Select **View IdP URL**. 
3. Copy the **IdP URL** link to give to users to log in. 


## Using {{site.data.keyword.appid_short}} instances to build dynamic rules in access groups
{: #app-id-dynamic-rules}

In addition to the required and recommended attributes, you can pass any kind of information with your SAML assertion. These attributes are available for you to use in [dynamic rules in access groups](/docs/account?topic=account-rules).

To successfully build a dynamic rule, the following information is required:

* Identity provider: Use the prefix `appid://` and the realm ID from the IAM IdP. For example, `appid://A1B2C3D4` if the realm ID of the user was `A1B2C3D4`.
* Add users when: Use the name of the additional SAML assertion. This property is passed through unchanged.
* If you are using the Cloud Directory option or the SAML federation option in {{site.data.keyword.appid_short}}, notice that you can add custom attributes to each user's profile. You can use those properties for dynamic rules too. However, if you have the same property as a custom attribute and as a SAML assertion, then the custom attribute from the SAML assertion is used.

The {{site.data.keyword.containerlong_notm}} up to release 1.18 relies on unique usernames in an account. To work correctly, you must ensure that all usernames are unique across all IdPs. This means that you must make sure that the usernames that are onboarded to your account from IBMid and users that are onboarded to your account by an IAM IdP don't overlap. Otherwise, the {{site.data.keyword.containerlong_notm}} RBAC rules might get confused and give incorrect permissions.
{: note}

If you are working with an external IdP, it is recommended that you connect with one external IdP only and let users onboard automatically through this IdP. 

Don't invite users by using the {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} invite process since this works only for users with IBMids. If you used {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} invites for your account, you would end up with a mixture of users coming from IBMid and users being automatically onboarded from your external IdP. This can easily lead to confusion because IBMid users log in through the {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} website while users from your external IdP must log in with a special URL. This can lead to duplicate usernames in one account, which is strongly discouraged due to limitations in the {{site.data.keyword.containershort}} as previously mentioned.
{: tip}

## Using IdP data to build trusted profiles
{: #trusted-profiles-idp-data}

After you have enabled and connected your IdP, you can start [creating trusted profiles](/docs/account?topic=account-create-trusted-profile). To build trust with federated users, you can use the personal data from your IdP to search attribute names and values that exist in your organization.

If the users that you are creating a trusted profile for use {{site.data.keyword.appid_full_notm}}, you should create the trusted profile as an {{site.data.keyword.appid_full_notm}} user, and likewise for IBMid. This way, your own SAML attributes can give you an idea of how to structure the trusted profile conditions. Other users with the same IdP can have different SAML attributes and you should use your own only as a hint. To use attributes in a claim that are different than your own, input them manually. 
{: tip}

The conditions that you create filter out or allow federated users to apply the trusted profile depending on which attributes the federated users are assigned in your corporate user directory. When you create a trusted profile, you can view IdP data to see your own user claims from your organizations corporate user directory. 

Let's say there is an attribute that is called `groups` that identifies departments, teams, and more granular internal organizations within your company. If there are developers in the US on the finance team that need the same level of access for a project, you might create a trusted profile the following conditions:

* Allow users when `groups` equals `finance-dev`
* Allow users when `country` equals `us`

To make sure that your conditions allow only the federated users you intend to grant access to, contact your corporate directory architect for more information on available attributes. 

It is recommended to create narrow conditions. You share the same IdP URL as everyone in your organization, so if a claim rule is too open, you might let users apply a trusted profile with access to your account unintentionally.
{: important}

Commit message:

IBMid for enterprise federation (publish)
https://github.ibm.com/Bluemix/docs/issues/8509

iam-idp-integration.md, after:

---

copyright:

  years: 2020, 2022

lastupdated: "2022-02-08"

keywords: identity provider, IdP, App ID, IAM, integration, IdP SSO, third-party authentication, dynamic rules, external identity provider

subcollection: account

---

{:shortdesc: .shortdesc}
{:codeblock: .codeblock}
{:screen: .screen}
{:tip: .tip}
{:note: .note}
{:important: .important}
{:external: target="_blank" .external}

# Enabling authentication from an external identity provider
{: #idp-integration}

You can integrate with your external identity provider (IdP) to securely authenticate external users to your {{site.data.keyword.cloud}} account. By using your IdP, you can provide a way for users in your company to use single sign-on (SSO). Connecting your cloud account with an {{site.data.keyword.appid_full_notm}} instance of your choice makes it all possible.
{: shortdesc}

A more commonly used authentication method in {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} that federates you for all {{site.data.keyword.IBM_notm}} products and has no usage charges is IBMid federation by registering your company's domain. Registering a company's domain with {{site.data.keyword.IBM_notm}} enables users to log in to {{site.data.keyword.IBM_notm}} products and services by using their existing company user credentials. Authentication is then handled by your company's IdP through single sign-on (SSO). For information about how to register your company for a federated ID, see the [IBMid Enterprise Federation Adoption Guide](https://ibm.box.com/v/IBMid-Federation-Guide){: external}. An {{site.data.keyword.IBM_notm}} sponsor, such as an offering advocate or client advocate, is required when you request to register federated IDs.

To begin setting up an IBMid for enterprise federation, send an email to: ibmidfd@us.ibm.com and state that you'd like to federate your Company IdP with IBMId.
{: note}

If you choose to use an external IdP reference through IAM, each account can have up to five IdP references added through the Identity providers page in the Access (IAM) section of the console. You set up your IdP reference by selecting which {{site.data.keyword.appid_short}} instance to integrate with IAM. Then, the IdP reference is given a random realm ID that is the unique prefix for users of that {{site.data.keyword.appid_short}} service instance. 

Setting up the integration between your {{site.data.keyword.appid_short}} instance, which is already configured with your IdP, and your {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} account makes it so you can continue to manage all users externally in your IdP. It also simplifies the log in process to your cloud account for users in your enterprise. After the integration is complete, you must provide your users with a custom URL that they use to log in each time. There is no need to invite anyone to your account because if they exist as a user in your connected IdP's user repository, they can log in with their credentials through the custom URL.

## Before you begin
{: #idp-prereqs}

* To decide which is the right federation option for you, check the [IBM Cloud SAML Federation Guide](https://www.ibm.com/cloud/blog/ibm-cloud-saml-federation-guide){: external}.
* Create an instance of {{site.data.keyword.appid_short}} from the {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} catalog. For more information, see the [Getting started tutorial](/docs/appid?topic=appid-getting-started).
* Configure your {{site.data.keyword.appid_short}} instance. For more information about how to do this depending on your use case, see the {{site.data.keyword.appid_short}} documentation about [managing authentication](/docs/appid?topic=appid-managing-idp).
* Make sure you have the required access to view and manage IdP references, if you aren't the account owner. You must be assigned the operator role or higher on the {{site.data.keyword.appid_short}} instance and the operator or administration role on the [IAM Identity Service](/docs/account?topic=account-account-services#identity-service-account-management). 

## Configuration of your {{site.data.keyword.appid_short}} instance for IAM integration
{: #configure-appid-instance}

Review the following requirements about how your {{site.data.keyword.appid_short}} instance must be configured to work properly as an IAM IdP for your {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} account.

If you plan to use your {{site.data.keyword.appid_short}} instance for IAM IdP integration, then any user can log in to your account who can authenticate with that {{site.data.keyword.appid_short}} instance. Therefore, consider following these guidelines when you configure your instance:

Disable the following types of authentication:

* Facebook
* Google
* IBMid
* Anonymous

If you decide to use Cloud Directory as an authentication method, disable the option for users to sign up through the app, and instead add only known users individually to your [Cloud Directory](/docs/appid?topic=appid-cloud-directory).
{: tip}

### Setting IAM-specific attributes in {{site.data.keyword.appid_short}} tokens
{: #iam-idp-attributes}

For IAM to work correctly with your external IdP, you must ensure that the {{site.data.keyword.appid_short}} instance provides all of the required attributes. See the following table for the required attributes:

| Attribute          | {{site.data.keyword.appid_short}} ID token claim            | Source             | Description      |
|--------------------|------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------|-------------------|
| identifier (required)   | ID        | {{site.data.keyword.appid_short}} generated     | A unique identifier that identifies a user. It can't be changed during the life time of that user. {{site.data.keyword.appid_short}} creates this identifier. |
| email (required)        | email    | Mapped from SAML assertion "email", which is mandatory for Cloud Directory and SAML configurations. | The user's email address. |
| username (recommended)  | preferred_username if present, otherwise sub    | Mapped from SAML assertion "preferred_username", "username", "user_name" or "userName" if available. Otherwise, the {{site.data.keyword.appid_short}} generated "sub" claim is used | When you work with the CLI, APIs, or the {{site.data.keyword.containerlong_notm}}, the username displays. A username is often an email address, but can also be a different value. If the username is not provided by {{site.data.keyword.appid_short}}, IAM uses the identifier instead. |
| firstname (recommended) | given_name if available, otherwise "notset" as default  | Mapped from SAML assertion "given_name", "givenname", "givenName", "first_name", "firstname" or "firstName" if available, otherwise IAM uses the constant "notset" | The first name of the user that logs in. |
| lastname (recommended)  | family_name if available, otherwise "notset" as default | Mapped from SAML assertion "family_name", "familyname", "familyName", "last_name", "lastname" or "lastName" if available, otherwise IAM uses the constant "notset" | The last name of the user that logs in. |
| name (optional)         | name if present, otherwise built by the firstname, a space, and the last name | There is no automatic mapping from SAML | Full name, including middle initial, title, or anything that is not covered by first name and last name |
{: caption="Table 1. Required attributes for {{site.data.keyword.appid_short}} tokens" caption-side="top"}

When a user authenticates successfully by using the {{site.data.keyword.appid_short}} service instance in the {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} account, the user is automatically added to the account. Added users don't get any access policies assigned by default. However, by using [access groups](/docs/account?topic=account-groups) and [dynamic rules](/docs/account?topic=account-rules), you can set up automatically assigned access policies.


## Enabling and connecting your identity provider
{: #idp-console}

If you haven't configured any IAM IdP references before in your account, you must enable the login setting for your account first.

1. Enable the login settings for your account. You can skip this step if you've already enabled this setting.
   1. Go to **Manage** > **Access (IAM)** > **Identity providers**, and click **Enable**. 
   2. Enter an alias for the default account URL, which you provide to users to log in to your account. 
  
    Since you're sharing the URL with external users, make sure the alias is unique and simple. A common format might be to use your company name or a variation of it.
    {: tip}
     
2. Click **Create** to create your IdP reference. 
3. Enter a name for the IdP reference, and select the {{site.data.keyword.appid_short}} instance that you want to connect. Then, select the following options:

   * **Enable for account login?**: Enable your IdP references to be used for users to log in to your account. This option is set by default when you first create an IdP reference. 
   * **Set as the default?**: When selected, users can use the default IdP reference URL that you created when you enabled this feature to log in to your account. You can have only one default IdP reference. For all other IdP references that you create, users must use the realm IDs to log in.
 
4. Click **Create**.

Your IdP reference is now available on the Identity providers list and the realm ID is generated automatically as the value that represents your IAM IdP in {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}}.
{: note}

## Logging in with external identity provider credentials
{: #log-in-external-idp}

After your {{site.data.keyword.appid_short}} instance is connected to your IdP, and your {{site.data.keyword.appid_short}} instance is integrated with IAM, your users can start logging in to your account. If the IdP reference is set as the default, then you can share the **Default IdP URL** for your account. 

However, since you can have only one set as the default, but you can have up to five set up in your account, you might need to get the URL for another IdP reference: 

1. From the Identity provider pages, click the **Actions** icon ![List of actions icon](../icons/action-menu-icon.svg "Actions") for the row of the IdP reference you need a URL for.
2. Select **View IdP URL**. 
3. Copy the **IdP URL** link to give to users to log in. 


## Using {{site.data.keyword.appid_short}} instances to build dynamic rules in access groups
{: #app-id-dynamic-rules}

In addition to the required and recommended attributes, you can pass any kind of information with your SAML assertion. These attributes are available for you to use in [dynamic rules in access groups](/docs/account?topic=account-rules).

To successfully build a dynamic rule, the following information is required:

* Identity provider: Use the prefix `appid://` and the realm ID from the IAM IdP. For example, `appid://A1B2C3D4` if the realm ID of the user was `A1B2C3D4`.
* Add users when: Use the name of the additional SAML assertion. This property is passed through unchanged.
* If you are using the Cloud Directory option or the SAML federation option in {{site.data.keyword.appid_short}}, notice that you can add custom attributes to each user's profile. You can use those properties for dynamic rules too. However, if you have the same property as a custom attribute and as a SAML assertion, then the custom attribute from the SAML assertion is used.

The {{site.data.keyword.containerlong_notm}} up to release 1.18 relies on unique usernames in an account. To work correctly, you must ensure that all usernames are unique across all IdPs. This means that you must make sure that the usernames that are onboarded to your account from IBMid and users that are onboarded to your account by an IAM IdP don't overlap. Otherwise, the {{site.data.keyword.containerlong_notm}} RBAC rules might get confused and give incorrect permissions.
{: note}

If you are working with an external IdP, it is recommended that you connect with one external IdP only and let users onboard automatically through this IdP. 

Don't invite users by using the {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} invite process since this works only for users with IBMids. If you used {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} invites for your account, you would end up with a mixture of users coming from IBMid and users being automatically onboarded from your external IdP. This can easily lead to confusion because IBMid users log in through the {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} website while users from your external IdP must log in with a special URL. This can lead to duplicate usernames in one account, which is strongly discouraged due to limitations in the {{site.data.keyword.containershort}} as previously mentioned.
{: tip}

## Using IdP data to build trusted profiles
{: #trusted-profiles-idp-data}

After you have enabled and connected your IdP, you can start [creating trusted profiles](/docs/account?topic=account-create-trusted-profile). To build trust with federated users, you can use the personal data from your IdP to search attribute names and values that exist in your organization.

If the users that you are creating a trusted profile for use {{site.data.keyword.appid_full_notm}}, you should create the trusted profile as an {{site.data.keyword.appid_full_notm}} user, and likewise for IBMid. This way, your own SAML attributes can give you an idea of how to structure the trusted profile conditions. Other users with the same IdP can have different SAML attributes and you should use your own only as a hint. To use attributes in a claim that are different than your own, input them manually. 
{: tip}

The conditions that you create filter out or allow federated users to apply the trusted profile depending on which attributes the federated users are assigned in your corporate user directory. When you create a trusted profile, you can view IdP data to see your own user claims from your organizations corporate user directory. 

Let's say there is an attribute that is called `groups` that identifies departments, teams, and more granular internal organizations within your company. If there are developers in the US on the finance team that need the same level of access for a project, you might create a trusted profile the following conditions:

* Allow users when `groups` equals `finance-dev`
* Allow users when `country` equals `us`

To make sure that your conditions allow only the federated users you intend to grant access to, contact your corporate directory architect for more information on available attributes. 

It is recommended to create narrow conditions. You share the same IdP URL as everyone in your organization, so if a claim rule is too open, you might let users apply a trusted profile with access to your account unintentionally.
{: important}
