iam-ver-auth.md, before:

---

copyright:

  years: 2018, 2021

lastupdated: "2021-10-29"

keywords: MFA, multifactor authentication, IBMid MFA, two-factor authentication, account MFA, time-based one-time passcode, TOTP, FIDO U2F, U2F, universal 2nd factor authentication, security key, reset MFA

subcollection: account

---

{{site.data.keyword.attribute-definition-list}}

# Managing verification methods and MFA factors
{: #verification-authentication}

You can add and delete your verification methods and authentication factors on the [Verification methods and authentication factors](https://iam.cloud.ibm.com/mysecurity){: external} page. You might want to update these settings if an email address or phone number that you use to verify your identity or authenticate to {{site.data.keyword.Bluemix}} changes or becomes inaccessible.
{: shortdesc}

You can view a log of recent changes to your verification methods and authentication factors by clicking **Show events** on the Verification methods and authentication factors page. 
{: tip}

## Accessing your verification methods and authentication factors
{: #ver-auth-login}

Verification methods and authentication factors add an extra layer of security to accounts. To view and modify your verification methods and authentication factors, complete the following steps: 

1. Go to the [Verification methods and authentication factors](https://iam.cloud.ibm.com/mysecurity){: external} page.
1. Validate your identity with two different verification methods. 
   You must verify your identity each time that you access the Verification methods and authentication factors page.
   {: note}

1. Enter the one-time password (OTP) that is sent to the method you choose, and click **Verify**. Complete this step for each method.

## Managing methods for verifying your identity
{: #verificaiton-methods}

You can add and remove the verification methods that identify you as a user in the account. Make sure that you add backup verification methods in case one of them becomes inaccessible. Verification methods are used each time that you access the Verification methods and authentication factors page. If a verification method is not in use, remove it.

If one or more verification methods are inaccessible, and you are unable to verify your identity, you can open a [support case](/unifiedsupport/supportcenter) to reset these methods.

### Adding a verification method
{: #add-verificaiton}

To add a verification method, complete the following steps:

1. From the Verification methods and authentication factors page, click **Manage verification methods**.
1. Click **Add**. 
1. Select a new verification method. 
1. Name the verification method. 
1. Enter the phone number or email address. 
1. Click **Send OTP**.
1. Enter the OTP that you receive. 
1. Click **Complete**. 

### Removing a verification method
{: #remove-verificaiton}

To remove a verification method, complete the following steps:

1. From the Verification methods and authentication factors page, click **Manage verification methods**.
1. Select the method that you want to remove. 
1. Click **Remove**.  
1. Click **Yes** to confirm that you want to remove the verification method.

## Managing your authentication factors
{: #auth-factors}

If an account administrator enables MFA in at least one of the accounts that you are a member of, you must use an authentication factor, in addition to your username and password, to securely log in to {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}}.

### Adding authentication factors
{: #add-auth-factors}

Authentication factors are used to authenticate yourself each time you log in to {{site.data.keyword.Bluemix_notm}} if an administrator enables MFA in at least one of the accounts you are a member of. These factors can be something that you have, like a U2F security key, or that you receive, like a time-based one time passcode (TOTP), or OTP. Make sure you add backup authentication factors. This way, you can prevent losing access to {{site.data.keyword.Bluemix_notm}} in the case that one of them becomes inaccessible.

1. From the Verification methods and authentication factors page, click **Show authentication factors**.
1. Click **Add**. 
1. Select an authentication factor and enter a name. This name is used to identify the authentication factor. 
    1. For **U2F**, insert your U2F security stick, and click **Register Key**.
    1. For **TOTP**, scan the QR code, and enter the code that is generated by your authenticator app. 
    1. For **Email-based**, enter the email address where you want to receive the OTPs. 
       1. Click **Send OTP**.
       1. Enter the OTP that you receive. 
1. Click **Complete**. 

### Removing authentication factors
{: #remove-auth-factors}

Remove an authentication factor if you don't have access to it anymore to ensure the security of your account.

1. From the Verification methods and authentication factors page, click **Show authentication factors**
1. Select an authentication factor.
1. Click **Remove**.
1. Click **Yes** to confirm that you want to remove the authentication factors.

You can also enable and disable MFA for your own account on the Verification methods and authentication factors page. Changing the authentication settings for an account impacts all members of the account. By enabling MFA, you can require more secure logins for your account. For more information, see [Enabling MFA for your account](/docs/account?topic=account-enablemfa).
{: tip}

Commit message:

update ts and task topic

iam-ver-auth.md, after:

---

copyright:

  years: 2018, 2021

lastupdated: "2021-11-18"

keywords: MFA, multifactor authentication, IBMid MFA, two-factor authentication, account MFA, time-based one-time passcode, TOTP, FIDO U2F, U2F, universal 2nd factor authentication, security key, reset MFA

subcollection: account

---

{{site.data.keyword.attribute-definition-list}}

# Managing verification methods and MFA factors
{: #verification-authentication}

You can add and delete your verification methods and authentication factors on the [Verification methods and authentication factors](https://iam.cloud.ibm.com/mysecurity){: external} page. You might want to update these settings if an email address or phone number that you use to verify your identity or authenticate to {{site.data.keyword.Bluemix}} changes or becomes inaccessible.
{: shortdesc}

You can view a log of recent changes to your verification methods and authentication factors by clicking **Show events** on the Verification methods and authentication factors page. 
{: tip}

## Accessing your verification methods and authentication factors
{: #ver-auth-login}

Verification methods and authentication factors add an extra layer of security to accounts. To view and modify your verification methods and authentication factors, complete the following steps: 

1. Go to the [Verification methods and authentication factors](https://iam.cloud.ibm.com/mysecurity){: external} page.
1. Validate your identity with two different verification methods. 
   You must verify your identity each time that you access the Verification methods and authentication factors page.
   {: note}

1. Enter the one-time password (OTP) that is sent to the method you choose, and click **Verify**. Complete this step for each method.

## Managing methods for verifying your identity
{: #verificaiton-methods}

You can add and remove the verification methods that identify you as a user in the account. Make sure that you add backup verification methods in case one of them becomes inaccessible. Verification methods are used each time that you access the Verification methods and authentication factors page. If a verification method is not in use, remove it.

If one or more verification methods are inaccessible, and you are unable to verify your identity, you can open a [support case](/unifiedsupport/supportcenter) to reset these methods.

### Adding a verification method
{: #add-verificaiton}

To add a verification method, complete the following steps:

1. From the Verification methods and authentication factors page, click **Manage verification methods**.
1. Click **Add**. 
1. Select a new verification method. 
1. Name the verification method. 
1. Enter the phone number or email address. 
1. Click **Send OTP**.
1. Enter the OTP that you receive. 
1. Click **Complete**. 

### Removing a verification method
{: #remove-verificaiton}

To remove a verification method, complete the following steps:

1. From the Verification methods and authentication factors page, click **Manage verification methods**.
1. Select the method that you want to remove. 
1. Click **Remove**.  
1. Click **Yes** to confirm that you want to remove the verification method.

## Managing your authentication factors
{: #auth-factors}

If an account administrator enables MFA in at least one of the accounts that you are a member of, you must use an authentication factor, in addition to your username and password, to securely log in to {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}}.

### Adding authentication factors
{: #add-auth-factors}

Authentication factors are used to authenticate yourself each time you log in to {{site.data.keyword.Bluemix_notm}} if an administrator enables MFA in at least one of the accounts you are a member of. These factors can be something that you have, like a U2F security key, or that you receive, like a time-based one time passcode (TOTP), or OTP. Make sure you add backup authentication factors. This way, you can prevent losing access to {{site.data.keyword.Bluemix_notm}} in the case that one of them becomes inaccessible.

1. From the Verification methods and authentication factors page, click **Show authentication factors**.
1. Click **Add**. 
1. Select an authentication factor and enter a name. This name is used to identify the authentication factor. 
    1. For **U2F**, insert your U2F security stick, and click **Register Key**.
    1. For **TOTP**, scan the QR code, and enter the code that is generated by your authenticator app. 
    1. For **Email-based**, enter the email address where you want to receive the OTPs. 
       1. Click **Send OTP**.
       1. Enter the OTP that you receive. 
1. Click **Complete**. 

### Removing authentication factors
{: #remove-auth-factors}

Remove an authentication factor if you don't have access to it anymore to ensure the security of your account.

1. From the Verification methods and authentication factors page, click **Show authentication factors**
1. Select an authentication factor.
1. Click **Remove**.
1. Click **Yes** to confirm that you want to remove the authentication factors.

You can also enable and disable MFA for your own account on the Verification methods and authentication factors page. Changing the authentication settings for an account impacts all members of the account. By enabling MFA, you can require more secure logins for your account. For more information, see [Enabling MFA for your account](/docs/account?topic=account-enablemfa).
{: tip}

### Resetting authentication factors 
{: #resetting-mfa-factors}

You can update or reset your authentication methods if the email address or phone number that you use to authenticate to the {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} console changes or becomes inaccessible. 
 
1. Go to the [Verification methods and authentication factors](https://iam.cloud.ibm.com/mysecurity){: external} page.
2. Validate your identity with two different verification methods. 
3. Click **Show accounts**.
4. Take note of the Authentication setting for each account. 
   1. If the account uses MFA for **IBMid users**, work with the [IBMid help desk](https://www.ibm.com/ibmid/myibm/help/us/helpdesk.html){: external} to reset your authentication factors. 
   1. If the account uses MFA for **All users**, you can reset your authentication factors on the Verification methods and authentication factors page.
